In the last lecture, we installed d3 and the d3 types,
let's now use this package to create a shape.
Now in my own visual, I will get rid of everything I have in these functions, so of all the code so that
I just have the class, the constructor and the update method.
Now in my class, I want to add a new private property which I'll name svg which will hold a reference
to this root svg element
I'm about to create. Therefore I can define the type and this will be d3 selection
and this is a generic type which means a selection can hold all kinds of HTML elements,
it will be an svg element,
so I'm basically saying this svg property will hold a reference to the svg element
I'm about to create.
Now I will create this element in the constructor because I want to create it right at the start
when this visual is created.
So therefore here we can say this.svg equals
and now we use d3 and use the select method to select a part in our HTML code.
Now don't forget our HTML code or our wrapping HTML element can be accessed on this options element.
We can get this on our options object which is passed to the constructor by Power BI automatically and
there, it's this element property, that is the HTML element which will wrap our whole visual. So with that, we know
where we want to add the svg element,
now of course we can call append to create a new HTML tag and you simply pass a string where you define
which tag that should be. That could be a div, that could be a paragraph
but here it's an svg element because that is what we want to create.
So with that, d3 will create this new svg element and add it to our wrapping element, our wrapping
HTML element,
I also want to make sure that a class is assigned here.
So here I will assign a class of bar chart to this svg element and I'll add true to make sure that
it is added and not removed or anything like that.
With that, this svg element is created, is added to our chart but we wouldn't be able to see anything
because it's an empty svg element,
so we want to render a shape and that should be done with the update method.
It is called initially once this has been created for the first time and then whenever we change something
and we definitely typically want to update our shapes whenever we resize the chart or anything like
that.
Therefore it is in the update method that I will take care about
how this actually looks like. Here
I will first extract the width and height of this tile
we place our chart in,
so of our wrapping HTML element and I can do this by accessing options here in the update method
and this is a different options object
than in the constructor.
This options object here gives us information about the update,
so here for me it's interesting to access the viewport which is the dimensions of our tile
and then width here or of course also the same for height
so that we actually know how much width and height do we have available for our visual here.
So that's what I'll retrieve here
and then I can access my svg which is why I stored it in this property so that I can access it from everywhere
in this class and call attr, this attr command to assign some attributes to it.
Here, the attributes I want to assign is width which I'll set equal to this width variable where I have
the extracted width from the viewport and height to resize our wrapping svg element which we created
in the constructor appropriately.
We still wouldn't see anything, so let's add a shape now. Here I'll simply create a simple rectangle by
accessing my svg element
and there, I want to call append and I will append a rect tag.
This can be done
in a svg, this
is a rectangle then.
I will call attr then and this is just done in a new line to make it easier to read as up here,
so this is still applied to this first line and the attributes here also are width,
let's set this to 50 maybe and that will be 50px automatically and a height of 50 and maybe let's
set a fill color of red to make it red.
Now with that, we should have added this rectangle to our svg and we should have made this rectangle
red and have a,
well it should be a square, 50 width 50 high. If I now save this with this still running in the command prompt,
if we go to the bar chart and reload it, we actually see our red square here.
And this is our very first basic custom visual with our own shape, of course not really displaying
any data and also
not changing if I resize this here but it is a first step.
Now let's continue working on this.